I think it's important to talk
about the history of Next.js and
kind of how we got here.
Especially if you're new to engineering,
if you just graduated boot camp,
there's some stuff.
There's some stuff going on here.
So because you might ask yourself,
like, well, isn't React a framework?
Why do I need a framework for a framework?
Right, it's kind of weird, but...
The interesting thing is that like if
you go to the React documentation,
they actually don't recommend
using React by itself anymore.
They actually recommend using
something like Next.js, which is huge.
That just happened this year.
So they recommend using something like
Next.js or any of the other frameworks so.
But anyway, the history of React and
XTS as you know, it may or may not know.
React is just basically a library
that was created by Facebook,
long time ago 2013, 2014.
And then eventually picked up steam
to become pretty much the number one
JavaScript framework out there.
Although I do think there are faster,
better frameworks out there.
I think React is probably still the most
popular one because it just has
the biggest community.
And everything is pretty much based off of
the learnings that React taught everyone.
So like everyone just took that and
improved it.
Had their own opinion.
So it's probably going to be
the most popular one going for
it because the community is just crazy.
But it's really just like a library.
It's not really a framework,
in my opinion.
It's just a way for you to build UIs
like it doesn't, it's not complete.
If you ever use something like Angular.
Where Angular is like, all right, you can
build these UIs with these components.
Also, here's a router, also,
here's a testing framework.
Also, here's everything that you ever
need to do everything in Angular,
you don't need to install anything else.
Yeah, React's not that.
React's just like,
here's how you make components.
That's it, right?
They don't even have A complete
state management system.
You would have to install something else
like a Redux or something to do that.
They definitely don't have a router.
You would have to install a router.
So, and that's really cool because it
allows you to have that flexibility of
like leve raging things
from the community.
But when you're a big
company with a big team,
the last thing you wanna do is
like go shopping for open source.
And putting your company's resources
back on some random person,
living in a basement, working on a router.
You want it to be backed by a big company.
So you want that assurance.
So that's what bigger companies
would do something like Angular.
So then that kind of created the need for
something like Next.js, where you need it.
A framework for the framework that like
kind of brought all these things in.
And I think what kind of
expedited that was the fact that.
You, there were a lot of advancements
on how you can render react.
So you can render it on the client.
You can render it on a server.
We're going to talk about
some of those things but
building that infrastructure to
do that was incredibly difficult.
I remember when server-side
react came out, and
I was on a team that
had to implement that.
It took us months, it took us
months to figure out how to do it.
Where it's like, now we get it for free.
So that's kind of where Next.js is and,
why it came to the scene.
And now it's like probably
the most heavily adopted,
most useful React framework out there.
And, there are others that kind
of compete with Next.js and
do something similar, but I think
Next.js just has the full package, yeah.
But yeah,
that's the history of React, Next.js.
Also to mention that Versell
is the company behind Next.js,
formerly Zeit, it's not Cart Versell.
They're hosting platform and they have
a team dedicated on working on Next.js and
I think they're doing a really good job.
But so
are all the other frameworks out there.
I think all the other frameworks
are doing really great.
It's just, yeah, this company
is crushing it, in my opinion.
Yeah, any questions about that history of
React, Next.js, frameworks in general?
If you just went back 10 years,
it wasn't too long before we
didn't even have frameworks.
I remember Backbone.js
was the first framework.
But before that,
everybody just used jQuery.
And yeah,
part of me wants to go back to that.
But the other part of me is just like,
man, there was no order there.
But it was also very simple.
It was a simple time, so, I don't know.
But there are some really cool frameworks
out there that kind of feel like that.
I like QuickJS, that one kind of
reminds me of the jQuery days, but
with more structure and
speed and things like that.
So that's a really cool
framework to check out.
I think we have a quick JS course
here at Frontend Masters, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Misko
>> Misko yeah, the creator of Quick JS,
also the creator of Angular.
Very smart guy.